please welcome to the stage Howard
lurman founder at Rome so bear with me
as I walk you through a structure
of specific ideas very tactical kind of
things that seem unconventional and they
at least worked for me maybe they'll
work for you and I encourage you to at
least try them so with that the very
first Jedi Master if you will that I
stole something from was John Lennon
okay and there's there's a lot of talk
about how do you tell your story in a
company and telling a story is really
important you have to be a Grandmaster
Storyteller to be a success let me ask
you a question how many of you are
founders by show of
hands okay we have a lot of Founders in
the audience youall better become really
good at telling your story over and over
again to the point of exhaustion where
you lose your voice and you feel like a
politician but nailing the storytelling
is absolutely one of the most important
things you can do and by the way for me
to just say that that's not good advice
for you because you already know that
right and the boring presentation would
say nail your storytelling okay thanks
how do I do that let me explain one
little trick I learned for how to do
this and here's a I just caught this
quote from John lennen once and it
unlocked my mind and I think it's apt to
be quoting a beatles thing here
obviously because we're here in the UK
what John did what and you see it says
do live demos I'll get there in a second
that's actually not the trick that's not
the first part of this trick what John
Lennon once said was when he would write
a song he would write the song and he
wouldn't write it
down now if you have has anybody here
ever tried to write a song like music
musically okay like you write down your
story and you come back to it later he
didn't do that and he encouraged George
Harrison and other people in The Beatles
to not write their songs down and I
thought this was a fascinating thing and
he said
you you will know it's a good song that
you've written if when you come back to
it a day later you still remember
it now think about how crazy that is
because if you're a teenage person in
the radio and you're listening this was
like in the 60s when the Beatles were
around and you're listening to something
you're listening to a song If for the
first time you hear a song like you may
remember it or may not remember it but
but if the author can't remember the
song they wrote how could they possibly
expect the audience to and I just
thought that was a brilliant insight and
so this is a long Meandering story a way
of saying uh when you are crafting your
story I think you should memorize your
lines I think when you memor the this
the mere Act of
memorization being able to remember it
later forces you to craft a great story
like a poem like you're I am Vic pent
like something some some sort of
phraseology the the process of saying
that same thing over and over again and
almost getting into a rap likee Rhythm
around it is actually a formulative
process in storytelling and removing the
words and saying them at certain beats
and rhythms I realize this is little
musical will help people remember it and
by the way that is how you're going to
remember it too and that's how you're
going to craft it almost what I'd say is
the the very first sort of cheat code I
learned is memorize your
lines it's not that you need to be able
to get up there and deliver something
from memory that's not the point the
point is the act of memorizing your
lines is one of composition and you will
find yourself continuously editing as
you do it and removing and mainly it's
subtraction mainly you're going to be
subtracting words you don't need because
I can almost assure you the story you
have right now is too complicated you
need to be able to pitch your story or
tell your story like a beetle song and
not from The White Album we're talking
about the early stuff you need to get up
there and she loves me okay that's the
first lesson I learned and I took it
from John lennin and an extension of
this lesson is to do the live demos live
demos I think are highly underrated
we my whole career I've been doing live
demos and by the way they're super risky
they're incredibly nerve-wracking you're
practically every time you use your
product in a live situation it has
nothing to do with the risk of your
actual product we all know this 100% of
the risk is related to the Wi-Fi not
working or the AV being
unfortunately here the AV is awesome
Nick and Kate thank you for that I can
hear myself clearly everything seems to
be working so far that's hard cuz when
you plug a computer in like you don't
have the right dong like everything goes
wrong but here's the thing you've got to
take that risk you've got to take the
risk to to do a live demo and and I
didn't really want to put a picture of
myself up here but this is one picture
that I did put up which was this was me
in 2009 and by the way this was
before like you could transcribe
something and prompt it like magic this
was pre anything working and I got up in
front of TechCrunch in 2009 and pitched
a voice recognition product and insanely
I did the demo in a live theater and I
got up there just like an environment
like this and there was like thousand
people or whatever and Mark andrees was
here and Marissa Meyer was there and
Paul Graham was on the stage they were
the judges and I got up and I did a live
phone call to a random auto repair shop
and transcribed it now I had no idea
what was going to happen with the
feedback and the AV and the odds of
failure were probably one in four one
and three but what I've I've learned is
that when you get up and you do a live
demo people understand that you're
taking a huge risk and it is so much
better to do a live demo where by the
way everyone in the audience is is with
you on that risk they're like on the
edge of their seat like when I was like
making that phone call and you can see
how nervous I am I'm like on the phone
I'm calling a auto repair shop
in miniapolis can I say that word here
probably not in Minneapolis okay I can
say Minneapolis I'm calling it auto
repair shop in Minneapolis and everyone
they're like what is this crazy guy
doing and like here's the thing it's
like they all knew that this could fail
they all knew it like there was a so the
minute that people know something could
fail it's like when you're watching a
movie and someone like could die like
you can't stop watching
it like you need to keep watching it and
so you keep watching it and anyway the
point is that when you do a live demo
you bring your audience along with you
and the risk that you are taking it's
all related to environment not product
and that risk is one that uh that
they're with you with and they will
discount and give you extra bonus points
for doing that I strongly recommend
doing live demos that could break and
frankly sometimes you should have it
break CU people like it when stuff goes
wrong they do you get sympathy points
you could get up there and if I had got
if I had run up to the stage and tripped
and fell down hard and broke my arm
right here in front of you guys you guys
would be talking about that way longer
than any gas bag stuff I have to spout
out about up here people tell hey
remember that time that crazy guy ran up
on especially if I ran up and then just
tripped and fell that would be the only
thing you remember from the conference
right so maybe I should do that next
time
okay okay this one is something that
I've said for a long time and everyone
used to get really mad at me about this
I think one-on-one meetings are terrible
I think all meetings are terrible okay I
think all meetings are terrible I
especially have it out for one-on-one
meetings and I remember in 2015 or 2014
I wrote a LinkedIn post I said it's time
to end one-on-one meetings and
practically every proper HR person and
every proper manager in the world seem
to have commented on this thing telling
me what a terrible manager I was
and how horrible it must be to work for
me and how I was just ignoring basic
management principles by not setting up
a regular weekly one-on-one for one hour
with my staff and gosh Howard how could
you possibly not be hearing about
employee concerns and what are you
possibly doing to manage people and then
this guy starts talking about how he has
a direct staff of 60 people and he never
has one-on-one meetings and all of a
sudden it's like except practice now so
I think the point is that it doesn't
help to wear a black leather jacket if
you're going to try to do
this you just have to start a trillion
dollar company apparently a billion
dollar company is not
enough all right so why do I hate
one-on-one meetings first off I can
barely sit through them myself right but
the main thing is that they tend to
evolve into if if first off okay let's
talk about time I also believe in the
flat organization I used to have when I
was running yex probably technically 30
to 35 direct reports but realistically
everybody reported to me if that makes
any sense like I would just walk around
and we just try to make stuff happen as
fast as possible here's the thing
there's a lot of downsides to one-on-one
meetings but one of them is that that
you end up if you have 30 direct reports
and you schedule a one-on-one meeting
with all 30 people once a week all of a
sudden all you do all week is 31 onone
meetings it's a terrible idea it clogs
your calendar up second people if they
need to talk to you they ceue up the
stuff they need to talk to you about
until the meeting so if I have a meeting
with with Kyle with Kevin on Thursday at
2:00 let's say I need to meet him and
he's got something really urgent to tell
Howard the CEO guess what Kevin is going
to wait until Thursday at 2:00 to to
deliver the news or whatever or work it
through but I think we should just do it
right now people cue up all their items
and it slows you down because people
ceue up the things that they need to
talk to you about next people tend to
get inventive what they do is they they
invent things to talk to you about that
they just don't need to talk to you
about and I don't have a problem with
therapy I Am pro therapy but I am not a
therapist okay and they just to turn
into therapy sessions and you can sense
that kind of happening people walk in
and all of the sudden this bad thing
have they're like they feel that it's a
time to air their Grievances and frankly
we're trying to start a company here and
take over the world I don't really want
to hear about why you weren't happy with
what Sally said to you or whatever it's
just time to get done sorry get
stuff done and move on I just want to
make sure they can't reuse the live
stream or at least it gets some bleeps
in here
so
Jensen now today famously has no
one-on-one meetings he barely has any
meetings at all you have to imagine that
Nvidia feels like an amoeba like an
amorphous sort of you know blob of
people just getting stuff done at warp
speeds to be able to produce things and
go faster and continue to accelerate
their speed not clog things down and
slow things down and and do it this is a
trick that I was always always using but
now that he has legitimized it you
should feel free and I give you all
permission to cancel your one-on-one
meetings with your team I promise you if
you do this your calendar will be this
is the single most important thing that
besides breaking my arm on the stage
this is the single most important thing
that I hope you take away from this
cancel your one-on-one meetings stop
having them by the way that doesn't mean
that if people don't need to talk to you
about something that they shouldn't
right if you need to talk to me about
something come let's do it but don't
wait till Tuesday and let's not have
some regular schedule thing for you to
be able to just sit there and do stuff
gosh we're only on number nine I better
move this along
okay oh this one's
bad Founders
Founders I am such a jerk I hold Sunday
night executive meetings
now I the room went silent when I said
that do people here is Sunday like a
sports day here what's the vibe for
Sunday
Sports drinking yeah I see okay drinking
here's the thing when you are starting a
company every possible thing that could
go wrong will go wrong and then more
things that you did not anticipate that
will go wrong one of the best hacks that
I figured out was holding Sunday night
executive meetings and I see John and
Grace sort of chatting here and they
they understand that for me I always
hated Sundays Sunday is the worst day of
the week for me I I like because I'm I'm
constantly thinking about one of what
we're working on the mission we're
trying to do it and Saturdays there's
always a flow of work on Saturday
morning when you wake up Saturday
morning and people are doing stuff I
actually always send up my board decks
on Saturday morning before the board
meeting that is I didn't write that in
but that is a tip you should do the best
time to send a board deck is Saturday
morning the week before your board
meeting because the VCS are there any
VCS in the audience
awesome okay there's no VCS in the
audience so they don't do
anything
okay so they're just like skiing or I
don't know what people do for fun but
like they're vacationing they're in
Aspen they're in
zermat and they're all I don't exactly
and like they're all like standing
around like talking and they like
Saturday is like not a different day for
them because they don't like Thursday is
like Sunday to them
okay so when you send it Saturday
morning they're like oh I think we got
one working here on a
Saturday but that's that usually they're
probably like taking like a private jet
back from Europe that day back to San
Francisco and if you catch them then
they'll read it Sunday night it will it
will show up first so Saturday is the
best day to send your board deck and I
always did this but by the way you do
your board meeting probably a Wednesday
or Thursdays put them there and then
send it out the Saturday morning before
um I'm totally lost here with what I'm
talking about just to say it I I have no
idea what time it is what time zone I'm
in but I do see Tim Cook here so back to
Tim Cook so you send out your flow of
work stuff on Saturdays and then and
then Sundays Sunday nights we hold our
exact meetings and so for me and what I
always did was I do them we start at
8:00 p.m. and like by 8:00 p.m. 9:00
p.m. Sunday night people are ready for
that next round of work and by the way
this is not the rank and file okay I'm
not saying that you need to ask your all
of your team to work Sunday night what
I'm saying is the freaking Founders who
are starting the company and trying to
do something impossible and move a rock
up a mountain ought to be available at
8:00 p.m. Sunday night for an hour and a
half to plan out the week and make that
part of your routine and I thought I was
a total jerk until I heard Tim Cook does
the same
thing Tim Cook holds his EXA and by the
way this is it doesn't have to be like a
meeting with video it can be a call you
do a audio call and you have a call
Sunday night and it just gets here's why
it gets you a whole cycle ahead because
you guys figure out as a Management
Group your your Founders your management
team what you're going to do for the
week then you can divide up on Monday
and Engineering can go after their
priorities and marketing can go after
their priorities it saves you three
hours and you get a you get ahead of you
get a whole thing ahead by the way if
you think Tim Cook is a jerk for making
you do Saturday uh Sunday night meetings
let me tell you Sam Walton from Walmart
used to make people come in on Saturday
mornings and they would have a barn
burner in Arkansas and there was a whole
thing and people would all come in
Saturday mornings and so just to get
ahead to get a full cycle ahead and the
pricing and stuff ahead of all the
Walmarts so that Walmart could beat all
the other competitor so anyway that was
a great trick I want to give you just a
quick other trick now
okay I'm now regretting putting a former
Secretary of State up here from the
United States in this European
conference as a picture with an American
flag behind it but there is a point to
the story which is the the gentleman
with the glasses is Dan danello he's the
founder of the Carlile group the
gentleman with the American flag is
James Baker who is American Secretary of
State Carl group huge private Equity
Firm turns out I grew up down the street
from Dan Daniel he was my neighbor
growing up randomly and this was before
he founded carile was as he was founding
Carlile he's I was like about eight and
he was in his mid-30s starting the
company and I watched this with a lot of
curiosity like why is this what are they
doing why is this guy starting this
company how's it going to work I thought
it was like the coolest thing ever and
then one day after they became wildly
successful I was in college and I was a
sophomore in college and and I was and
he was super helpful to me ask him how
do you do this this why are you doing
this and I noticed that they added James
Baker the former Secretary of State to
their board as an adviser and I just it
didn't make any sense to me I was like
why would a private Equity Firm want to
have a former United States Secretary
estate as a advisor it's not just about
who you know it's about it's not just
about what you're trying to do it's
about who you know and he told me that
James Baker is a phone call away from
any anybody in the world and so we can
tap into that and that I think stuck
with me and here's the thing I and let
me just tie this back to SAS for a
second I actually think a lot of the bdr
SDR outbound model here is totally
inverted and when I was running yex I
used to get all the amount of gifts like
crappy gifts that I got all the I had a
junk pile and I went to Duke so I'd have
like all the bdrs would send me a Duke
hat and then the bdr would be like hey
did you get the DU cat I sent can I get
a meeting with you and I'd like dude I
got like 46 duats here and they don't
even fit it's not a good hat and by the
way I don't want a hat and by the way
even if I take your hat like why would I
what does that have to do with your
software and but I have a lot of empathy
for bdrs and outbound it's just it's not
a good model and this bottom up kind of
model I think is backwards and who who
does have access to to me and CEOs it's
top down and it should be topped down
and so that's what carile did and I was
like okay I can do that too and so when
I started yex this is really going to
make make you laugh I call we were
starting up this vertical sasis we were
starting up a lead generation thing for
for gyms and for veterinarians so I
called the past president the guy the
guy in the suit is the founder of Ursa
which is the Trade Organization for gyms
and I called him and I made him an
advisor and guess what Rick Caro is a
phone call away from any gym in America
and got us into and you might not know
these Brands but Crunch and Equinox and
B Fitness and we had within 6 months
2,000 gyms signed up and we're like okay
this model really works what am I going
to do next we wanted to sell to
veterinarians so can you guess who the
guy holding the dog
is he is the president of the American
Veterinary Medical Association and he's
a phone call away and by the way
veterinarians are not people this guy
and by the way I can't even begin to
tell you how silly this is this guy's
name is Dr little which you is a whole
other story in itself we signed up 3,000
vets he's a phone call away the point is
this use your let me make this very
concrete for you take your cap table and
use it as a weapon and take all the
stock options that you have to give out
to folks you probably set aside some
percentage I'm sure if you're Venture
backed or not and think about who your
target audience is and instead of
investing heavily in bdrs and sdrs and
outbound to gener generate
demand use your stock options to bring
on advisers who can make a fast
introduction to the top people
immediately and get you in no bdr is
going to be able to get a a meeting with
the CEO of some place now maybe your
target audience isn't CEOs even still
it's much easier for Rick Caro to call
up the CEO of a gym and get you into the
right place top down they don't even
when you're selling to people that are
not the CEO but are a couple rungs over
when you come in through the CEO the
customer the the prospect doesn't even
know what's going on behind the scenes
they might think that they have to buy
you want to come in as high as possible
and this just to make this very tactical
use your cap table find advisors give
them stock and let me give you some tip
about this for a second very specific
make the stock only vest over up to one
year don't make it four years when you
hire employees you make it it's four
years because most advisers lose their
you just use up all their connections in
6 months so make it a year they'll
follow through but give them some stock
at Rome my new company we have 93
amazing Founders in our cap table and
I'm a phone call away if you will from
any founder we want because it's our
target audience and so I've put my
practice where where this was and I
learned this trick from Mr Danielo which
I still call him myy even though I don't
know why from the Carl group all right
so Teddy Rose was the president of the
United States and this is a very
specific tactic I stole from him as I'm
very against one-on-one meetings but as
you grow your company you need to keep
in touch with what is going on around
the world and yex opened offices in
London and in the in in the Netherlands
we had offices in Japan and Beijing and
from all over the world and one time I
noticed that that Teddy Roosevelt I read
this book about him by Doris Kern
Goodwin uh the Bulet Pulpit which is an
amazing book and he used to hold
5-minute meetings as president United
States and people would line up inside
of his office he'd have a secretary time
it 5 minutes and people would come in
they'd make their case and he'd make a
decision and I was thinking to myself
wait a minute if if Teddy Roosevelt can
make a decision of matters of national
consequence for the United States in
five minutes I can certainly hold a five
minute meeting about some trivial item
at the company and just get it done and
so I strongly recommend you try this
make your cender available for 5 minute
slots don't make them 30 don't make them
60 because when you make them 30 Guess
What Happens the whole thing fills up
with you I guarantee you the meeting
will be 30 minutes you know if you make
it five the same amount will get done in
five people get right to the point and
what's shocking is when I used to hold
these five minute meetings and you
really have to put a clock there and you
don't have to necessarily you can have
an assistant put the clock there so you
don't look like the the clock nerd sorry
we have to end now they just you know
come on in 5 minutes next meeting's here
bang what's hilarious is you get done in
3 minutes and then you sit there
awkwardly for two minutes and you're
like whoa that was good we good yeah
we're good okay cool next
meeting all right so that's one that's
one I learned from
Teddy this is one of my favorite people
in the world he's Jim steel does anybody
know Jim or heard of Jim Jim is the
president of Salesforce he was president
of yex for a while if you're ever having
a bad day
just go meet with your customers and
they will cheer you up get out there get
on a plane go see them Jim used to say
I've never had a bad day with
customers he told me that when Mark
Benny off hired him to found the
Enterprise Group at Salesforce that he
that Mark used to run around and say if
if he saw a Jim in the office he would
be like get out of here like why are you
here I don't want to see you I want you
on a plane
and so I have found that there's a
direct correlation in the Enterprise for
the amount of time I see a rep in the
office and how bad they are and let me
say this a different way you'll never
see your best reps because where are
they they're with customers Andrew Ross
sorin from The New York Times who say
there's no news in the building get out
of here go find the news go make the
news go be with your customers this is
an obvious one obvious one which brings
me to the next one here
this is a super tactical one I I never
said this before but one time into it
thought about buying yex so this was 10
12 years ago way before we were public
and we talked about it a little bit
there's this guy Brad who was running
into it and there was Scott Cook who was
the founder and Visionary genius and
then there was like Bill and Bill showed
up and was like talking to a sports
coach and he was like let's go champ and
I was what you know what why what's the
point of this and then Eric Schmidt
wrote the book trillion dollar coach
about Bill after he died
and here's a really tactical Point here
which is I learned it
y that you have this position in your
company so founder CEOs by show of hands
CEOs okay how many keep your hands up if
you're also the
chairman how many of you are the founder
and CEO but not the
chairman okay that is the way and let me
explain why
and and and by the way if you're a
Founder CEO and you are the chairman I
recommend this is a hack and by the way
I did this at Rome give up the chairman
title find someone who is amazing that
is that can open doors maybe they've
been the CEO of a big company before
maybe they're in your industry give up
the chairman title make that person the
chair of the board the chair of the
board has no power it's purely
ceremonial it's just a title they call
call the meeting to
order that's all they do they call the
meeting to order there's some
organizational stuff that goes on and if
you're a seriesa company were even
earlier here's a trick and by the way
since there's no VCS in the audience I
can give you a a trick that that gives
you a little bit of advantage over a VC
if you are a series a company and your
board construction is two Founders and
the VC you've raised an a round so maybe
there's three people on your board but
the VC has all the sort of preferential
voting rights and all that kind of stuff
and has to approve any financing one
thing you can do is if you were to find
somebody that is just like a totally
next Stratosphere person and go to the
VC and say hey i' love you go and you
find a bill Campbell you say hey Bill
Campbell is interested in being in the
board what do you think and if they're
well known the the VC will almost
invariably say that's awesome this is a
really positive signal it's you know the
fact that somebody like Bill Campbell is
willing to join the board of this
company means that there's something
potentially awesome happening so hell
yeah we're gonna we want to put bill on
the board and what you and as the
chairman and so here's something you've
done you basically bought yourself an
extra board seat because later on you
now Bill's going to be likely is going
to be in your corner and all of a sudden
you have someone who is overpowered in
your corner on the board as an extra
seat and is also the chair and I can
almost ass and the way they say it is
hey somebody like Bill wants to be an
independent and it's a no-brainer to get
somethingone like that on your board so
I did this uh at yex and I did it at
Rome and I put on and I put what what I
recommend you go for is a person who has
been around to the other side and has
gotten to a level or two kind of like
more than where you have been at Yak I
asked Mike wallrath to be the board
chair early on and gave up the title and
at Rome when I founded the company I
asked Brent Saunders who at the time was
the CEO of Allergan Health which is a
$95 billion pharmaceutical company and I
had been through a$3 billion company
with yex but I had never been to a $90
billion company like Brent had and so
Brent is the chairman I gave up the
title it was a total no-brainer to do
that and easy to get
done
okay every piece of advice in the world
is going to say hey founder as you scale
you need to delegate do not
delegate do not do not just repeat after
me do not delegate okay here's the thing
you will have to delegate functions so
I'm going to give you the exact order of
delegate of this is your delegate
function for the engineers in the room
okay delegate things in this order first
delegate
legal that's easy then delegate
accounting then HR then strategic
Finance then delegate operations then
delegate Dem man gen and sales customer
success engineering storytelling the
second to last thing you should delegate
is
recruiting and then
never over your dead
body over your dead body over your
corpse delegate product Market
fit you as a found and I'm speaking to
the founders here your job as a Founder
is always to completely own and dominate
product Market fit you cannot hire
someone to run product you cannot hire
someone to figure out product Market fit
with customers you only you it is the
the single most important thing you do
everything else is window addressing
naming a chairman figuring out how to do
Sunday night EXA these are all little
tactics but the Core Essence of being a
the meaning of being a Founder is
finding and holding and hugging product
Market fit and never letting it go and
that can be for your existing product
line if you launch another product and
another product but never ever delegate
product Market
fit and the last one is
this have fun it is your company just
remember that you're all nobody knows
anything just remember that like you're
all like out there walking around
everyone's got this advice and you're
you're all here to get advice from me I
don't know anything like nobody knows
anything we're all specks on this planet
flying through the sky here for a blink
of time okay it's it's going to be over
soon but here's the thing like this is
your opportunity at this moment in time
to to have a playhouse it's your company
you can do things your way I only can
tell you the ways that works for me but
if it doesn't hit with you then don't do
it and if a board member or expert or VC
has a Playbook that works for them but
it doesn't feel right to
you don't do it do it your way the the
this company your company I'm speaking
to the founders have to be an extension
of what works with you what works for
you and so it's your company founder is
the only permanent
title you will all even if your company
gets big and goes public and you step
back and they bring in a new
CEO you're still the founder forever
it's your house construct it your way
never let anybody tell you how to do it
against your gut because your gut the
whole thing has to come out of your gut
from product Market fit to everything
you can reinvent other things along the
way if you look at
when Apple made the iPhone they didn't
just make a better phone they reinvented
the entire retail experience you walk
into an Apple Store there's no checkout
that was the craziest thing ever they
didn't have to do that they just they
made it their way Tesla reinvented not
just the car but how you buy a car
buying a car online putting down a
payment getting this whole thing it's
just different they did it their way
from Soup To Nuts And so when you make
your product you can also rein
the other parts of your business in any
construction you want go to market you
can make your way admin you can make
your way you can make things it's your
here's a good metaphor it's your
chocolate factory okay you can build
chocolate Rivers you can give out golden
tickets do it your way Soup To Nuts
don't be like oh I made my product my
way and now I'm going to follow the
playbooks for exactly how to do sales
and marketing no make the whole thing
your creative canvas and fill it in for
exactly how you want to do it